# Udacity Data Engineer Nanodegree Project: Data Warehouse

## Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

Files are available in Amazon s3 bucket at s3://udacity-dend/log_data and s3://udacity-dend/song_data containing log data and songs data respectively.

## Schema

### Fact Table
songplays: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
users: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
time: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

# To run the project:

* Update the dwh.cfg file with Amazon Redshift cluster credentials and IAM role that can access the cluster.
* Run create_tables.py. This will create the database and all the required tables.
* Run etl.py. This will start pipeline which will read the data from files and populate the tables.